
 [Yahoo! Sports]                    Yahoo! - Sports - Help [The Sporting News]
                 ------------------------------------------

Get a FREE copy of
your credit report!

  Sports      Outdoors    Worldwide    Fantasy                    Oct 15, 2001

 Top NFL NBA NHL  MLB NCAA       Golf  Tennis NASCAR World Soccer MLS  more...
                      Football

National Basketball
Association          Front - Standings - Scoreboard - Stats - Teams - Players

 Fantasy preview: The top 50 centers
 By Brian Doolittle - The Sporting News

* TSN's draft kit: The ultimate fantasy tool

 No position on a NBA fantasy team is more difficult to fulfill than the
 center spot. Once you get past the initial tier of high-quality centers --
 which is a rather small list -- you have to explore intensively to find a
 center worthy of a starting role. Then you must try and find a backup among
 this barren landscape of inexperienced big men and aging stiffs.

 It is a dilemma that keeps my in-box full of email from troubled owners.
 With the majority of fantasy drafts occurring over the next two weeks, I
 have put together a list of the top-50 centers -- somehow I managed to track
 down enough to complete this list.

 For those of you who have yet to participate in your league's draft, TSN now
 has the ultimate drafting tool. Our comprehensive NBA fantasy draft kit has
 everything you need, including updated rankings for every player and
 statistical projections for the top-200 players.

 The countdown to opening night is finally dwindling and is approaching
 single digits. I could not be more excited about the 1,189 regular-season
 box scores that I'll get to peruse and relentlessly scrutinize. I say bring
 it on.

 The Top 20

 1. Shaquille O'Neal, Lakers: His troublesome times at the free-throw line
 have, at times, inappropriately overshadowed his actual fantasy dominance.
 He will place in the top-5 in four categories.

 2. Dikembe Mutombo, 76ers: Expect added focus from him this season. He will
 secure his usual spot among NBA leaders in blocked shots and rebounds. He
 proved he could score in the post during the Finals and should improve on
 last season's scoring average of 10 ppg.

 3. David Robinson, Spurs: He still is in an ideal situation to be productive
 and his team knows how best to use him efficiently. As long as plays 70-plus
 games, he'll be a valuable center.

 4. Theo Ratliff, Hawks: He has developed a decent post and mid-range
 offensive game. An elite shot blocker who should average 9 rpg to go with 14
 ppg.

 5. Marcus Camby, Knicks: He perpetually seems to be on the brink of stardom.
 When healthy, double-doubles are abundant and he is a great shot blocker.

 6. Alonzo Mourning, Heat: Few would dispute he is the second-best center in
 the NBA when at his best. But his unsure health situation remains a factor
 heading into the season. He'll still be a high draft selection in most
 leagues.

 7. Vlade Divac, Kings: He remains a safe bet in the middle because he has
 enough versatility to accumulate assists and blocks while getting occasional
 double-doubles.

 8. Elden Campbell, Hornets: A pretty even performer over the course of the
 season, but his lack of top-notch shot-blocking ability hinders his ranking.
 He should score 12-13 ppg.

 9. Marc Jackson, Rockets: His rapidly improving post game and ability to
 shoot the short baseline jumper makes him an attractive center. Houston will
 rely on him for interior scoring. He is a weak shot blocker.

 10. Raef LaFrentz, Nuggets: He will be called upon to score and rebound more
 while Antonio McDyess is out. Expect 15 ppg and 8 rpg with solid shooting.

 11. Hakeem Olajuwon, Raptors: Though he will no longer log heavy minutes, he
 will still be in double figures in scoring and average 8 rpg with solid
 contributions in other areas.

 12. Shawn Bradley, Mavericks: He is an elite shot blocker who scores and
 rebounds enough to fulfill your center position.

 13. Nazr Mohammed, Hawks: He proved he can produce, so playing time will be
 a major determining factor since he likely will not start.

 14. Lorenzen Wright, Grizzlies: He will start for Memphis and should have
 several double-doubles. He is a solid scorer who needs to be consistent to
 be valuable.

 15. Michael Olowokandi, Clippers: Though he is yet to shed some negative
 labels, his team still believes in him. Expect 10 ppg from him.

 16. Keon Clark, Raptors: His untapped potential is obvious, but he could be
 poised for a breakthrough season. Though he did not live to our hype from
 one season ago, few centers can match his shot blocking skills.

 17. Chris Mihm, Cavaliers: He might actually start the season as a power
 forward if Zydrunas Ilgauskus is ready to play. But it is a safe bet he'll
 end up playing plenty of games at center.

 18. Jahidi White, Wizards: The Wizards have a deeper frontcourt rotation
 this season, decreasing the minutes White will get.

 19. Jamal Magloire, Hornets: His minutes will be down if Derrick Coleman is
 productive and becomes the first power forward off the bench. He was
 impressive in stretches last season.

 20. Calvin Booth, Sonics: Being a talented shot blocker increases his value.
 He was effective last season in Washington and Dallas in limited minutes,
 but he is now a starter.

 THE REST

 21. Patrick Ewing, Magic
 22. Dale Davis, Blazers
 23. Kelvin Cato, Rockets
 24. Brad Miller, Bulls
 25. Eddy Curry, Bulls
 26. Michael Doleac, Cavaliers
 27. Zydrunas Ilgauskus, Cavaliers
 28. Todd MacCullough, Nets
 29. Bryant Reeves, Grizzlies
 30. Ervin Johnson, Bucks
 31. Scot Pollard, Kings
 32. Erick Dampier, Warriors
 33. Tony Battie, Celtics
 34. Jake Tsakalidis, Suns
 35. Vitaly Potapenko, Celtics
 36. John Amaechi, Jazz
 37. Rasho Nesterovic, Timberwolves
 38. Peja Drobnjak, Sonics
 39. Ike Austin, Grizzlies
 40. Adonal Foyle, Warriors
 41. Greg Ostertag, Jazz
 42. Sean Rooks, Clippers
 43. Jeff Foster, Pacers
 44. Mark Blount, Celtics
 45. Andrew DeClercq, Magic
 46. Loren Woods, Timberwolves
 47. Zeljko Rebraca, Pistons
 48. Greg Foster, Bucks
 49. Brendan Haywood, Wizards
 50. Evan Eschmeyer, Mavericks

 Brian Doolittle is an associate editor for The Sporting News. Email your NBA
 questions to him at bdoolitt@sportingnews.com.

 Get more SPORTING NEWS and a FREE gift!
 Interact with other experts on sportingnews.com!
 Listen to Sporting News Radio LIVE online!
 Get reports from The Sporting News in your email!

                    Email this story - (View most popular)

                                       updated at Fri Oct 12 12:57:45 2001 PT

                    ---------------------------------------
                                      Help

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright © 2001 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy - Terms of
Service - Help
Copyright © 2001 The Sporting News. All rights reserved.
