
 [Yahoo! Sports]                                                        Yahoo! - Sports - Help
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                     Height ft  in Weight

   Sports        Outdoors       Worldwide       Fantasy                           Oct 26, 2001

 Top NFL NBA NHL  MLB NCAA Football Golf Tennis  NASCAR World Soccer more...

National Basketball Association      Front - Standings - Scoreboard - Stats - Teams - Players

   More NBA News     Rotisserie By The Numbers: The Top 40 Forwards              ADVERTISEMENT
                                                                                    [Image]
 Rotisserie By The   October 26, 2001
 Numbers: The Top
 40 Forwards         By Craig Rondinone
                     SportsTicker Staff Writer
 Pacers: Tinsley
 to Start Over       JERSEY CITY, NEW JERSEY (TICKER) -- Finding a good
 Rose, Best at       forward in a fantasy draft is about as simple as finding
 Point               a shot for Allen Iverson.

 Wolves: Wally on    Although the talent pool at forward is not as deep as it
 the Verge?          is at guard, it is nowhere near as shallow as it is at
                     center. And the position is dominated at the top by
 Magic: Grant Hill   players either in their prime or about to enter it.
 Sprains Bad Left
 Ankle               Here are the top 40 forwards in fantasy basketball,
                     starting with a certain "Fab Five" member:
 Magic: McGrady
 Returns             1. Chris Webber, Kings: Yeah, C-Webb is going to miss
                     the first couple weeks with a sprained ankle. Does that
                     mean you pass him by and let him slip to some other sap
Yahoo! Sports Poll   in your league? No. Webber led all forwards last season
What will be         in scoring with 27.4 points per game and added 11.2
Michael Jordan's     rebounds and 4.3 assists. If he slides through the first
biggest individual   round of your draft, you are in a league with morons of
accomplishment in    the first degree.
2001-02?
                     2. Kevin Garnett, Timerwolves: Garnett is a one-man show
  League MVP         who does everything. He scores points. He commandeers

  Scoring title      all rebounds. He blocks shots like he was related to
  but not MVP        Manute Bol. And he will throw in five assists per game
  All-NBA first      for good measure. Did I mention he does EVERYTHING?
  team but no
  scoring title      3. Tim Duncan, Spurs: If he is listed as a center
                     according to your league's specifications, he would be
  All-NBA second     ranked second. You could make a great argument that he
  team
                     could be rated higher at this one, too. He averaged 22.2
  All-NBA third      points a game last season and led all forwards with 12.2
  team               rebounds.
  Leads Wizards in
  scoring but not    4. Antoine Walker, Celtics: Walker is about as bashful
  on all-NBA teams   about shooting as Shannon Tweed is about making "B"
  Won't be healthy   movies. If field goal percentage is not a category in
  enough for any     your league, then Walker is a great guy to grab. He also
  of the above       led all forwards in 2000-01 with 5.5 assists per game.
  Will be healthy
  enough, but not    5. Antawn Jamison, Warriors: Just like Walker, Jamison
  good enough        takes a plethora of shots, which helps him score
                     boatloads of points (second among forwards last season
                     with 24.9). Unlike Walker, though, Jamison has no other
 view results w/o    choice. Other than Larry Hughes, there are not many
      voting         options in Golden State. If he keeps shooting, he will
                     keep scoring. He also has to stay healthy. He only
-------------------  played 43 games last season.

                     6. Karl Malone, Jazz: "The Mailman" does not look like
                     he will be mailing it in anytime soon. His superb
                     physical conditioning has allowed him to continue to put
                     up great numbers season after season even though he has
                     to be 125-years old by now.

                     7. Shareef Abdur-Rahim, Hawks: Going from the Grizzlies
                     to the Hawks might not be a step in the right direction,
                     but normally a change of scenery means good things for a
                     player's fantasy production.

                     8. Dirk Nowitzki, Mavericks: Those critics that laughed
                     in 1998 when Don Nelson drafted Nowitzki hopefully are
                     out of jobs. This versatile seven-footer (he's listed at
                     6-11) never misses games and does not make many
                     mistakes. A new long-term deal should put his mind at
                     ease.

                     9. Elton Brand, Clippers: Brand's statistics got lost in
                     the shuffle in Chicago last season, but his numbers
                     (20.1 ppg, 10.1 rpg) were right up there with most
                     forwards in the upper echelon. He will get lost in the
                     shuffle even more with the Clippers, so he may fall a
                     round farther than he should in your draft.

                     10. Jamal Mashburn, Hornets: Thanks to rededicating
                     himself to basketball and wanting to prove to people
                     that he was not soft, Mashburn had his best season since
                     the 1995-96 campaign, averaging 20.1 points, 7.6
                     rebounds and 5.4 assists per game.

                     The rest of the top 40:

                     11. Shawn Marion, Suns: The kid has more hops than a
                     microbrew. If he gets his scoring average closer to 20
                     ppg he will be in the top 10.

                     12. Glenn Robinson, Bucks: "Big Dog" scores plenty of
                     points but his pedestrian rebounding numbers prevent him
                     from cracking the top 10.

                     13. Rasheed Wallace, Trail Blazers: He averaged 19.2 ppg
                     and 7.8 rpg in 2000-01, but if you are in a league where
                     technical fouls is a category, he should be the first
                     pick overall. Portland has made him a captain in hopes
                     it will calm him down. Yeah, right!

                     14. Lamar Odom, Clippers: Has the tools to become the
                     next great player that does it all.

                     15. Kenyon Martin, Nets: A broken leg and mediocre start
                     were the only things that kept Martin from winning
                     Rookie of the Year honors last year. He averaged 18.2
                     ppg and 8.5 rpg in March once he began getting more
                     minutes and experience.

                     16. Grant Hill, Magic: Constant worries about his feet
                     and legs are the only shadows hanging over this
                     all-around superstar. If he puts up the same numbers he
                     did during the 1999-00 season, he is back in the top
                     five.

                     17. Juwan Howard, Mavericks: Went from being the first
                     option on Washington to the third option in Dallas.

                     18. Predrag Stojakovic, Kings: He will be the first
                     person to pick up the scoring slack left by Webber's
                     injury.

                     19. Anthony Mason, Bucks: His fantasy value depends on
                     how many minutes he plays -- considering the Bucks also
                     have Robinson and Tim Thomas at forward -- and how well
                     he gets along with George Karl.

                     20. Richard Hamilton, Wizards: Very Allan Houston-like.
                     Good for points and not much else. Maybe Michael Jordan
                     can teach him a thing or two.

                     21. Brian Grant, Heat: His numbers will take a hit now
                     that Alonzo Mourning is back full-time.

                     22. Keith Van Horn, Nets: 19.3 ppg career scoring
                     average is nice, but he only has played more than 62
                     games once in four seasons.

                     23. Antonio Davis, Raptors: Should not get complacent
                     after signing big contract. Expect the double-doubles to
                     keep on coming.

                     24. Cliff Robinson, Pistons: Will be given green light
                     to shoot as many 3's as he wants in the Motor City to
                     take heat off Jerry Stackhouse.

                     25. Eddie Griffin, Rockets: He will need time to adjust
                     to the NBA game, but he certainly has an NBA body and
                     skills. The best rookie forward available.

                     26. Wally Szczerbiak, Timberwolves: Led all forwards in
                     free throw percentage and was second among forwards in
                     field goal percentage last season.

                     27. Rashard Lewis, SuperSonics: This sharpshooter with
                     the sweet stroke gets better every season.

                     28. Lorenzen Wright, Grizzlies: This big body averaged
                     12.4 ppg and 7.5 rpg in just 28 mpg last season for
                     Atlanta.

                     29. Scottie Pippen, Trail Blazers: He is just a big name
                     that will be drafted way too high for what he is worth
                     in your fantasy league.

                     30. Danny Fortson, Warriors: Was one of the best players
                     in fantasy basketball (16.7 ppg, 16.3 rpg) when he
                     played last season. Too bad he only played in six games.

                     31. Shane Battier, Grizzlies: This intelligent rookie
                     will not need much time to learn the NBA game. Stromile
                     Swift will cut into playing time.

                     32. Antonio McDyess, Nuggets: A serious knee problem
                     will keep him out until February, but if you can draft
                     him late and stash him on your injured list, do it.

                     33. Vin Baker, SuperSonics: This enigma's game has
                     declined greatly since he went to Seattle.

                     34. Joe Smith, Timerwolves: Kevin Garnett gets his buddy
                     back.

                     35. Donyell Marshall, Jazz: Has quietly become a decent
                     fantasy performer the last couple years.

                     36. Charles Oakley, Bulls: There will be plenty of
                     missed shots in Chicago for him to rebound.

                     37. Derrick Coleman, Sixers: Talk about high risk-high
                     reward. He could average 15 points per game, or he could
                     be drummed out of the locker room by Allen Iverson and
                     Dikembe Mutombo.

                     38. Kwame Brown, Wizards: He is the perfect player to
                     draft late if you are in a keeper league.

                     39. Mike Miller, Magic: The reigning Rookie of the Year
                     is out a while with a fractured foot.

                     40. Kurt Thomas, Knicks: Led all forwards in field goal
                     percentage.

                     Next Friday: Ranking the guards.

                              Email this story - (View most popular)

                                      updated at Fri Oct 26 14:05:08 2001 PT

                                   ----------------------------
                                                Help

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright © 2001 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy - Terms of Service - Help
Copyright © 2000 SportsTicker Enterprises LP. All rights reserved.
